# The Pascaline Project
***
### Introduction
Math is old. Very old. The earliest known mathematical text, Plimpton, was a Babylonian text from about 2000 BC. Math surely is older than that too, since it didn't start with textbooks. As we have advanced as a species, mathematics has with us, leading us forward in engineering and science, allowing for man-made wonders beyond the scale of any individual. The great Pyramids at Giza, the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, Notre Dame, the roads and Aqueducts of Rome, airplanes, the car, nuclear fission. All made possible through math.
As such, learning and being able to do math is a crucial skill for anyone who wishes to push the bounds of human understanding. However, doing math can be time consuming. We memorize times tables as children, and some people learn to do larger number arithmetic in their head as well, but very rarely can someone do matrix multiplication, or calculus, without working it out on paper. Which, while important, is tedious, and can lead to silly errors. That is why humans began creating calculators.
First, we had abaci(abacuses). This simplistic counting machine allowed for easily remembering and manipulating numbers using an array of sliding beads. We have examples of Sumerian abacuses as old as 2700 BC, before even those math books we mentioned earlier. While simple, they are highly effective at holding on to numbers, though still tedious to use. 
The mighty slide rule was invented in the 1600's by Reverend William Oughtred. While I won't go into detail on how slide rules work or how to use them, I highly recommend you look it up, since they are fascinating tools. They are much closer to what we would call a calculator than an abacus, having all sorts of functionality like exponents, multiplication, square roots, and more. Slide rules were so useful that they were used into the age of modern computers, really till the end of the 20th century. 
However, the first true calculator, was a mechanical calculator called the Pascaline, creating by the legendary Blaise Pascal, not long after the slide rule was invented. It could only do addition and subtraction, but was revolutionary in its concept, and way, way ahead of its time. 
Then of course came hundreds of years, the age of computing, and more. However, during the 70's and 80's, Texas Instruments began developing small, powerful microchips, which they released as handheld graphing calculators starting in 1990. As of writing, they have made 17 graphing calculators, plus several variants with colored screens or other small changes. These calculators were, at the time, incredibly impressive and useful, allowing for handheld computing at speeds never before dreamed of. However, in the Year of Our Lord 2025, these chips and calculators are, at their core, around 30 years old. Yet they are still the standard for schools, standardized testing, and still cost a hefty sum, despite the, in computer terms, archaic technology inside of them. 
Old CPU's now with 8 MHz clocks, sub Megabyte memory and flash, and 8 bit architecture. Not to mention they are written in a variant of BASIC, which while fun to learn and use, is not a very robust language. 
Enter The Pascaline Project. We have decided to create a more up-to-date replacement for these aging machines. We are not funded or associated with Texas Instruments at all, merely upset with the lackluster abilities of these calculators compared to their price. 
Our goal is to make a faster, stronger calculator with more functionality, easier to program, completely open source, and of course, that is cheaper to buy and produce. 
### Specs

| Processor | Flash Memory | RAM | Storage      | Power |
| --------- | ------------ | --- | ------------ | ----- |
|           |              |     | MicroSD card |       |
The plan is to program the entire project in C, the greatest programming language ever made. 